README.md, before:


# Spark Authorizer [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/yaooqinn/spark-authorizer.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/yaooqinn/spark-authorizer) [![HitCount](http://hits.dwyl.io/yaooqinn/spark-authorizer.svg)](http://hits.dwyl.io/yaooqinn/spark-authorizer)

**Spark Authorizer** provides you with *SQL Standard Based Authorization* for [Apache Spark™](http://spark.apache.org) 
as same as [SQL Standard Based Hive Authorization](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/Hive/SQL+Standard+Based+Hive+Authorization). 
While you are using Spark SQL or Dataset/DataFrame API to load data from tables embedded with [Apache Hive™](https://hive.apache.org) metastore, 
this library provides row/column level fine-grained access controls by [Apache Ranger™](https://ranger.apache.org) or Hive SQL Standard Based Authorization.

Security is one of fundamental features for enterprise adoption. [Apache Ranger™](https://ranger.apache.org) offers many security plugins for many Hadoop ecosystem components, 
such as HDFS, Hive, HBase, Solr and Sqoop2. However, [Apache Spark™](http://spark.apache.org) is not counted in yet. 
When a secured HDFS cluster is used as a data warehouse accessed by various users and groups via different applications wrote by Spark and Hive, 
it is very difficult to guarantee data management in a consistent way.  Apache Spark users visit data warehouse only 
with Storage based access controls offered by HDFS. This library shares [Ranger Hive plugin](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/RANGER/Apache+Ranger+0.5.0+Installation#ApacheRanger0.5.0Installation-InstallingApacheHive(1.2.0)) 
with Hive to help Spark talking to Ranger Admin. 

Please refer to [ACL Management for Spark SQL](https://yaooqinn.github.io/spark-authorizer/docs/spark_sql_authorization.html) to see what spark-authorizer supports.

## Quick Start

### Step 1. Install Spark Authorizer

Include this package in your Spark Applications using:
#### spark-shell, pyspark, or spark-submit
```bash
> $SPARK_HOME/bin/spark-shell --packages yaooqinn:spark-authorizer:2.1.1
```
#### sbt
If you use the sbt-spark-package plugin, in your sbt build file, add:
```sbtshell
spDependencies += "yaooqinn/spark-authorizer:2.1.1"
```
Otherwise,
```sbtshell
resolvers += "Spark Packages Repo" at "http://dl.bintray.com/spark-packages/maven"

libraryDependencies += "yaooqinn" % "spark-authorizer" % "2.1.1"
```

#### Maven
In your pom.xml, add:
```xml
<dependencies>
  <!-- list of dependencies -->
  <dependency>
    <groupId>yaooqinn</groupId>
    <artifactId>spark-authorizer</artifactId>
    <version>2.1.1</version>
  </dependency>
</dependencies>
<repositories>
  <!-- list of other repositories -->
  <repository>
    <id>SparkPackagesRepo</id>
    <url>http://dl.bintray.com/spark-packages/maven</url>
  </repository>
</repositories>
```

#### Manully
If you [Building Spark Authorizer](https://yaooqinn.github.io/spark-authorizer/docs/building-spark-authorizer.html) manully, you can deploy via:
```bash
cp target/spark-authorizer-<version>.jar $SPARK_HOME/jars
```

### Step 2. Install & Configure Ranger Hive Plugin

Please refer to [Install Ranger Hive Plugin For Apache Spark](https://yaooqinn.github.io/spark-authorizer/docs/install_plugin.html) to learn how to deploy the plugin jars to Apache Spark and set Ranger/Hive configurations.

### Step 3. Enable Spark Authorizer

In `$SPARK_HOME/conf/spark-defaults.conf`, add:

```scala
spark.sql.extensions=org.apache.ranger.authorization.spark.authorizer.RangerSparkSQLExtension
```
**NOTE** `spark.sql.extensions` is only supported by Spark 2.2.x and later, for Spark 2.1.x please use [Version: 1.1.3.spark2.1](https://github.com/yaooqinn/spark-authorizer/tree/78f7d818db773c3567c636575845a413ac560c90) and check the previous doc.

## Interactive Spark Shell

The easiest way to start using Spark is through the Scala shell:

```shell
bin/spark-shell --master yarn --proxy-user hzyaoqin
```

## Suffer for the Authorization Pain 

We create a ranger policy as below:
![ranger-policy-details](docs/img/ranger-prolcy-details.png)

Check Privilege with some simple cases.

#### Show databases

```sql
scala> spark.sql("show databases").show
+--------------+
|  databaseName|
+--------------+
|       default|
| spark_test_db|
| tpcds_10g_ext|
+--------------+
```

#### Switch database

```sql
scala> spark.sql("use spark_test_db").show
17/12/08 17:06:17 ERROR optimizer.Authorizer:
+===============================+
|Spark SQL Authorization Failure|
|-------------------------------|
|Permission denied: user [hzyaoqin] does not have [USE] privilege on [spark_test_db]
|-------------------------------|
|Spark SQL Authorization Failure|
+===============================+
```
Oops...


```sql
scala> spark.sql("use tpcds_10g_ext").show
++
||
++
++
```
LOL...


### Select 
```sql
scala> spark.sql("select cp_type from catalog_page limit 1").show
17/12/08 17:09:58 ERROR optimizer.Authorizer:
+===============================+
|Spark SQL Authorization Failure|
|-------------------------------|
|Permission denied: user [hzyaoqin] does not have [SELECT] privilege on [tpcds_10g_ext/catalog_page/cp_type]
|-------------------------------|
|Spark SQL Authorization Failure|
+===============================+
```
Oops...

```sql
scala> spark.sql("select * from call_center limit 1").show
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+---------------+-----------------+---------------+--------+--------+------------+--------+--------+-----------+---------+--------------------+--------------------+-----------------+-----------+----------------+----------+---------------+----------------+--------------+--------------+---------------+-------+-----------------+--------+------+-------------+-------------+-----------------+
|cc_call_center_sk|cc_call_center_id|cc_rec_start_date|cc_rec_end_date|cc_closed_date_sk|cc_open_date_sk| cc_name|cc_class|cc_employees|cc_sq_ft|cc_hours| cc_manager|cc_mkt_id|        cc_mkt_class|         cc_mkt_desc|cc_market_manager|cc_division|cc_division_name|cc_company|cc_company_name|cc_street_number|cc_street_name|cc_street_type|cc_suite_number|cc_city|        cc_county|cc_state|cc_zip|   cc_country|cc_gmt_offset|cc_tax_percentage|
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+---------------+-----------------+---------------+--------+--------+------------+--------+--------+-----------+---------+--------------------+--------------------+-----------------+-----------+----------------+----------+---------------+----------------+--------------+--------------+---------------+-------+-----------------+--------+------+-------------+-------------+-----------------+
|                1| AAAAAAAABAAAAAAA|       1998-01-01|           null|             null|        2450952|NY Metro|   large|           2|    1138| 8AM-4PM|Bob Belcher|        6|More than other a...|Shared others cou...|      Julius Tran|          3|             pri|         6|          cally|             730|      Ash Hill|     Boulevard|        Suite 0| Midway|Williamson County|      TN| 31904|United States|        -5.00|             0.11|
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+---------------+-----------------+---------------+--------+--------+------------+--------+--------+-----------+---------+--------------------+--------------------+-----------------+-----------+----------------+----------+---------------+----------------+--------------+--------------+---------------+-------+-----------------+--------+------+-------------+-------------+-----------------+

```

LOL...

### Dataset/DataFrame

```scala
scala> spark.read.table("catalog_page").limit(1).collect
```
```
17/12/11 14:46:33 ERROR optimizer.Authorizer:
+===============================+
|Spark SQL Authorization Failure|
|-------------------------------|
|Permission denied: user [hzyaoqin] does not have [SELECT] privilege on [tpcds_10g_ext/catalog_page/cp_catalog_page_sk,cp_catalog_page_id,cp_promo_id,cp_start_date_sk,cp_end_date_sk,cp_department,cp_catalog_number,cp_catalog_page_number,cp_description,cp_type]
|-------------------------------|
|Spark SQL Authorization Failure|
+===============================+
```
Oops...

```scala
scala> spark.read.table("call_center").limit(1).collect
```
```
res3: Array[org.apache.spark.sql.Row] = Array([1,AAAAAAAABAAAAAAA,1998-01-01,null,null,2450952,NY Metro,large,2,1138,8AM-4PM,Bob Belcher,6,More than other authori,Shared others could not count fully dollars. New members ca,Julius Tran,3,pri,6,cally,730,Ash Hill,Boulevard,Suite 0,Midway,Williamson County,TN,31904,United States,-5.00,0.11])
```
LOL...

---

Commit message:

use AspectJ to intercept SessionCatelog listDatabases and listTables method, filtering out unauthorized resources

README.md, after:


# Spark Authorizer [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/yaooqinn/spark-authorizer.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/yaooqinn/spark-authorizer) [![HitCount](http://hits.dwyl.io/yaooqinn/spark-authorizer.svg)](http://hits.dwyl.io/yaooqinn/spark-authorizer)

**Spark Authorizer** provides you with *SQL Standard Based Authorization* for [Apache Spark™](http://spark.apache.org) 
as same as [SQL Standard Based Hive Authorization](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/Hive/SQL+Standard+Based+Hive+Authorization). 
While you are using Spark SQL or Dataset/DataFrame API to load data from tables embedded with [Apache Hive™](https://hive.apache.org) metastore, 
this library provides row/column level fine-grained access controls by [Apache Ranger™](https://ranger.apache.org) or Hive SQL Standard Based Authorization.

Security is one of fundamental features for enterprise adoption. [Apache Ranger™](https://ranger.apache.org) offers many security plugins for many Hadoop ecosystem components, 
such as HDFS, Hive, HBase, Solr and Sqoop2. However, [Apache Spark™](http://spark.apache.org) is not counted in yet. 
When a secured HDFS cluster is used as a data warehouse accessed by various users and groups via different applications wrote by Spark and Hive, 
it is very difficult to guarantee data management in a consistent way.  Apache Spark users visit data warehouse only 
with Storage based access controls offered by HDFS. This library shares [Ranger Hive plugin](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/RANGER/Apache+Ranger+0.5.0+Installation#ApacheRanger0.5.0Installation-InstallingApacheHive(1.2.0)) 
with Hive to help Spark talking to Ranger Admin. 

Please refer to [ACL Management for Spark SQL](https://yaooqinn.github.io/spark-authorizer/docs/spark_sql_authorization.html) to see what spark-authorizer supports.

## Quick Start

### Step 1. Install Spark Authorizer

Include this package in your Spark Applications using:
#### spark-shell, pyspark, or spark-submit
```bash
> $SPARK_HOME/bin/spark-shell --packages yaooqinn:spark-authorizer:2.1.1
```
#### sbt
If you use the sbt-spark-package plugin, in your sbt build file, add:
```sbtshell
spDependencies += "yaooqinn/spark-authorizer:2.1.1"
```
Otherwise,
```sbtshell
resolvers += "Spark Packages Repo" at "http://dl.bintray.com/spark-packages/maven"

libraryDependencies += "yaooqinn" % "spark-authorizer" % "2.1.1"
```

#### Maven
In your pom.xml, add:
```xml
<dependencies>
  <!-- list of dependencies -->
  <dependency>
    <groupId>yaooqinn</groupId>
    <artifactId>spark-authorizer</artifactId>
    <version>2.1.1</version>
  </dependency>
</dependencies>
<repositories>
  <!-- list of other repositories -->
  <repository>
    <id>SparkPackagesRepo</id>
    <url>http://dl.bintray.com/spark-packages/maven</url>
  </repository>
</repositories>
```

#### Manully
If you [Building Spark Authorizer](https://yaooqinn.github.io/spark-authorizer/docs/building-spark-authorizer.html) manully, you can deploy via:
```bash
cp target/spark-authorizer-<version>.jar $SPARK_HOME/jars
```

### Step 2. Install & Configure Ranger Hive Plugin

Please refer to [Install Ranger Hive Plugin For Apache Spark](https://yaooqinn.github.io/spark-authorizer/docs/install_plugin.html) to learn how to deploy the plugin jars to Apache Spark and set Ranger/Hive configurations.

### Step 3. Enable Spark Authorizer

In `$SPARK_HOME/conf/spark-defaults.conf`, add:

```scala
spark.sql.extensions org.apache.ranger.authorization.spark.authorizer.RangerSparkSQLExtension
spark.driver.extraJavaOptions -javaagent:/path/to/aspectjweaver-{version}.jar

```
**NOTE** `spark.sql.extensions` is only supported by Spark 2.2.x and later, for Spark 2.1.x please use [Version: 1.1.3.spark2.1](https://github.com/yaooqinn/spark-authorizer/tree/78f7d818db773c3567c636575845a413ac560c90) and check the previous doc.



## Interactive Spark Shell

The easiest way to start using Spark is through the Scala shell:

```shell
bin/spark-shell --master yarn --proxy-user hzyaoqin
```

## Suffer for the Authorization Pain 

We create a ranger policy as below:
![ranger-policy-details](docs/img/ranger-prolcy-details.png)

Check Privilege with some simple cases.

#### Show databases

```sql
scala> spark.sql("show databases").show
+--------------+
|  databaseName|
+--------------+
|       default|
| spark_test_db|
| tpcds_10g_ext|
+--------------+
```

#### Switch database

```sql
scala> spark.sql("use spark_test_db").show
17/12/08 17:06:17 ERROR optimizer.Authorizer:
+===============================+
|Spark SQL Authorization Failure|
|-------------------------------|
|Permission denied: user [hzyaoqin] does not have [USE] privilege on [spark_test_db]
|-------------------------------|
|Spark SQL Authorization Failure|
+===============================+
```
Oops...


```sql
scala> spark.sql("use tpcds_10g_ext").show
++
||
++
++
```
LOL...


### Select 
```sql
scala> spark.sql("select cp_type from catalog_page limit 1").show
17/12/08 17:09:58 ERROR optimizer.Authorizer:
+===============================+
|Spark SQL Authorization Failure|
|-------------------------------|
|Permission denied: user [hzyaoqin] does not have [SELECT] privilege on [tpcds_10g_ext/catalog_page/cp_type]
|-------------------------------|
|Spark SQL Authorization Failure|
+===============================+
```
Oops...

```sql
scala> spark.sql("select * from call_center limit 1").show
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+---------------+-----------------+---------------+--------+--------+------------+--------+--------+-----------+---------+--------------------+--------------------+-----------------+-----------+----------------+----------+---------------+----------------+--------------+--------------+---------------+-------+-----------------+--------+------+-------------+-------------+-----------------+
|cc_call_center_sk|cc_call_center_id|cc_rec_start_date|cc_rec_end_date|cc_closed_date_sk|cc_open_date_sk| cc_name|cc_class|cc_employees|cc_sq_ft|cc_hours| cc_manager|cc_mkt_id|        cc_mkt_class|         cc_mkt_desc|cc_market_manager|cc_division|cc_division_name|cc_company|cc_company_name|cc_street_number|cc_street_name|cc_street_type|cc_suite_number|cc_city|        cc_county|cc_state|cc_zip|   cc_country|cc_gmt_offset|cc_tax_percentage|
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+---------------+-----------------+---------------+--------+--------+------------+--------+--------+-----------+---------+--------------------+--------------------+-----------------+-----------+----------------+----------+---------------+----------------+--------------+--------------+---------------+-------+-----------------+--------+------+-------------+-------------+-----------------+
|                1| AAAAAAAABAAAAAAA|       1998-01-01|           null|             null|        2450952|NY Metro|   large|           2|    1138| 8AM-4PM|Bob Belcher|        6|More than other a...|Shared others cou...|      Julius Tran|          3|             pri|         6|          cally|             730|      Ash Hill|     Boulevard|        Suite 0| Midway|Williamson County|      TN| 31904|United States|        -5.00|             0.11|
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+---------------+-----------------+---------------+--------+--------+------------+--------+--------+-----------+---------+--------------------+--------------------+-----------------+-----------+----------------+----------+---------------+----------------+--------------+--------------+---------------+-------+-----------------+--------+------+-------------+-------------+-----------------+

```

LOL...

### Dataset/DataFrame

```scala
scala> spark.read.table("catalog_page").limit(1).collect
```
```
17/12/11 14:46:33 ERROR optimizer.Authorizer:
+===============================+
|Spark SQL Authorization Failure|
|-------------------------------|
|Permission denied: user [hzyaoqin] does not have [SELECT] privilege on [tpcds_10g_ext/catalog_page/cp_catalog_page_sk,cp_catalog_page_id,cp_promo_id,cp_start_date_sk,cp_end_date_sk,cp_department,cp_catalog_number,cp_catalog_page_number,cp_description,cp_type]
|-------------------------------|
|Spark SQL Authorization Failure|
+===============================+
```
Oops...

```scala
scala> spark.read.table("call_center").limit(1).collect
```
```
res3: Array[org.apache.spark.sql.Row] = Array([1,AAAAAAAABAAAAAAA,1998-01-01,null,null,2450952,NY Metro,large,2,1138,8AM-4PM,Bob Belcher,6,More than other authori,Shared others could not count fully dollars. New members ca,Julius Tran,3,pri,6,cally,730,Ash Hill,Boulevard,Suite 0,Midway,Williamson County,TN,31904,United States,-5.00,0.11])
```
LOL...

---

## Development

### Package

```bash
# for spark 2.3
mvn -P spark-2.3 package

# for spark 2.2
mvn -P spark-2.2 package
```

### Enable AspectJ for Tests

This Spark extension use AspectJ to intercept the Spark internal class method,
therefore AspectJ jar must add to JVM options in order to run some unit tests.

For test using Intellij IDEA, get `aspectjweaver` jar file path from maven
dependencies then add follow to Test `Configuration -> VM Parameters`:
```
-javaagent:/path/to/aspectjweaver-{version}.jar
```
